DIGITAL MUSICAL INSTRUMENT
 
INTRODUCTORY GUIDE

1) First of all, thanks for your interest in our invention. You can use it for free, copy it, modify it and sell it (yeps) according to the license provided with the Pure Data environment (refer to http://puredata.info/about/pdlicense/). Nevertheless, once you have tried this software you might feel just compelled to give the author a reward, for which he suggests a bottle or can of good Belgian beer, chocolate (milk chocolate or dark chocolate, not stuffed chocolate unless it is hand-crafted organic Belgian chocolate from Hilde Devolder) or some food. In the latter case, home-made food is preferable, it has to be compatible with an ovo-lacto-vegetarian diet and in any case it is better to contact the author to ask if it is alright. Alrighty then, that being said, let us get into business. 

2) Download and install in your computer the Puredata programming environment. While other versions might work,  It is highly recommended to use version 0.42.5. You can download it from here: http://puredata.info/downloads/pd-extended/releases/0.42.5
Choose the right version for the operating system you will use. The one that says “All platforms (Source code)” requires to be compiled. Unless you are fluent in compiling code in the C programming language (which most human beings are not) it is extremely highly recommended not to use that version. 

3) In the folder where this text file is located there should be at least one file with the word “TEMPLATE” in its name. Copy the template file that you will use and rename it, for example “My_first_digital_musical_instrument” if you are a cute person or “Satan_is_my_lord” if you are a Norwegian psychopath. You will be using the new version of the file, so that the original remains untouched in case you screw the one that you will work on. Oh yes, you will screw it.

4) Once that file is copied and Puredata (Pd for the rest of your life) is installed in your computer, then open Pd. Then from Pd open the template file that you just copied and renamed (“Satan_is_my_lord” in case you are a Norwegian psychopath). If everything goes well, a little window will appear showing little boxes named “control”, “mapping” and “synthesis”.  Also that window shows the name of the author of the software (a “patch” in Pd jargon). At this point if everything has gone well, you should feel a warm sensation through your body, the sunlight will shine through your window, the birds outside will sing beautiful melodies and your heart will be filled with a sensation of cosmic harmony. Or something alike.

5) From now on it is up to you to explore what is before you. Go ahead and click over things and see what happens. If you need help ask Google. From now on, Google is your best friend. If your best friend fails to you, you can contact the author of the software for support, mostly moral and seldom technical. You can modify the software as you wish and save your own creations (yay!). Remember that if everything goes wrong, the sun stops to shine, the birds sing country music and that feeling of cosmic harmony turns into a strong desire of eating industrial amounts of frozen chocolate pudding, then you still have the original version untouched.

6) Finally, good luck to you, although to make this thing work most probably more than luck you will need to be creative, industrious, patient and smart.
